Circle Language Spec Steps & Time Planning
==========================================


Purpose of this Document
------------------------

This document aims to subdivide a project into work items and gives a time planning and time estimation for it.

The goal and strategy of the project were already described in the document *Circle Language Spec Strategy*. The list of possible products to make were already listed out in the document *Circle Language Spec Product List*. This document lists out work items and gives a time estimation of the work.


Considerations
--------------

The planning looks sort of unrealistic. But that should not make this document any less useful for progress monitoring.

At one point it was planned for the total amount of points to be covered in 8 months. When not on schedule, choices could to be made about how to speed up progress or products could be cut out of scope.


Work Items
----------

__1__ = Piece of cake  
__2__ = Easy  
__3__ = Average  
__4__ = Relatively hard  
__5__ = Very hard  
__8__ = Extreme but known  
__10__ = Extreme and unknown  

Things might be slightly over-scored, because they are just variations on relatively easy. (Though that sounds a little bit optimistic.) The scores are not only about how easy or difficult something is, but also how much work. The orange items are postponed and not counted up in the planning.

- Roughly:
    - Coding Essentials __(6 items)  (14 points)__
    - Automatic Diagram Organization __(1 item)  (5 points)__
    - Total new computer language: __10 work items (19 points)__

- First: __(7 items)  (19 points)__
    - Coding Essentials: __(6 items)  (14 points)__
        - They are potentially easier, because they are clear, but it might still be quite some work, to work them out.
        - Easier theme: Type Control  __(3)__
        - Easier theme: Object Resolution __(4)__
        - Work out Static __(1)__
        - Redo theme: Classes __(2)__
        - Redo theme: Relations __(2)__
        - Coding Essentials, Other Requirements __(2)__

- Automatic Diagram Organization: __(1 item)  (5 points)__

    - Diagram Metrics __(5)__

- Optional:

    - Merging conceptual explanation and diagram expression:
    - Redo theme: Objects  __(2)__
    - Update Execution Control  __(2)__
    - Update Relations  __(2)__
    - Redo theme: System Objects  __(2)__
    - Medium theme: Conditions  __(2)__
    - Redo theme: Commands  __(2)__
    - Redo theme: Parameters  __(1)__
    - Redo theme: Globality  __(1)__
    - Black Box Postponed Work:
        - Black Box Cross-Out System Objects Topics __(4)__
        - Black Box Miscellaneous Issues __(3)__
        - Black Box Side-Issues __(3)__
        - Black Box Details, Cover Last __(3)__
        - Black Box Details, May Not Cover __(3)__
        - Black Box Cross-Out Remaining Issues __(3)__
    - System Objects Postponed Work:
        - System Objects Cross-Out Details __(2)__
        - System Objects Cross-Out Ideas __(8)__
        - System Objects Additions __(5)__

- Hard topics: __(9 topics)__ 
    - The list below are not separate themes. An exact planning might not be made for these topics.
    - Diagram Topics
    - Integrate new ideas
    - Later, the material and the reading order might be changed, so it is easier to *read*.
    - Wrap up


Total Points
------------

__19 points__


Reverse Planning
----------------

*(Based on old total number of points of 141 and a specific available time period in 2009.)*

__~~8 months~~__  
__~~34 ½ weeks~~__


Velocity
--------

*(Based on old total number of points of 141 and a specific available time period in 2009.)*

__17 ½ points per month__  
__4 points a week__


Samples
--------

Redo themes in __4__ weeks.  
Easier themes in __5 ½__ weeks.


Unrealistic
------------

Even though this seems an unrealistic velocity, this could be used as the schedule to continue with.
Even though the velocity may be wrong, the score points might still be usable for progress monitoring.


More Considerations
-------------------

Even though the time planning might be unrealistic, maybe consider the primary goal of the project: make ideas easier to pick up by others. That means, that newer ideas could get lower priority. You might for instance choose to only cover a general view on a topic instead of working out the exact details of a concept. Perhaps you could settle for less regarding certain topics. And even when 8 months does not turn out to be enough to cover everything, the most important topics should have been covered, because those were probably put at the top of the list.


Eventual Time-Cost
------------------

(The first two phases were finished before this time planning. See done sub-project descriptions for details what the phases entail. They are just time periods.)

Phase 1: 2008-03-05 – 2008-10-01 = __7__ months  
Phase 2: 2009-04-05 – 2009-06-21 = __2 ½__ months  
Phase 3: 2009-06-22 – 2009-09-27 … = __3__ months ...  