Circle Language Spec Plan | Legend of Symbols and Color Markings
===============================================================


Introduction
------------

You may find these symbols and color markings in the planning docs, that indicate the status of things done/not done.


Symbols
-------

\-			An item ( / to do )

x			Done

x~			Just about done / done just about this way

~x			Just about done / done just about this way

/			Don’t do

\>			Answer / conclusion / finding

\>>			Check that

->|			Done

->~|		Just about done

…			Working on

->..		Postponed ( / pick up later ( from ) )

\>..			Postponed ( / pick up later ( from ) )

..->		Picked up again

..>			Picked up again

|->			Started

~			Maybe do it, maybe don't

<<  >>		Stereotype e.g. <<use case>>


Colors
------

No color		Open

Grey			Done

Brown		Do not do

Orange		Postponed / wait / request pending

Red			Big problem / error

Green			Quite important / this is correct

Blue			Very Important / do this

Slight variations in colors should have no meaning.


Scientific Method
-----------------

Hyp	Hypothesis

Exp	Experiment

Obs	Observation

Conc	Conclusion

Q		Question

A		Answer


Template Markings
-----------------

These markings appear in the templates.

…				You have to put something in its place or more has to come after the ellipsis

< Text >		Placeholder. You have to fill in something here.

Can also denote an un-worked-out idea.

[ Text ]		Indicates an optional element.

Text | Text	The symbol | is used to separate different options.

{ Text }	Annotation / comment. The curly braces contain explanations about the template.
The explanations can be left out of the eventual document.
`	 `PAGE 2 /  NUMPAGES 3
