Encircle Language Spec | Product List (Out of Scope)
====================================================


Purpose of this Document
------------------------

This document is a raw list of the products to produce in a project. The topics mentioned here are put out of scope of the project *Encircle Language Spec* and some may be moved away to another place eventually.


Construct Drafts
----------------

- ### Expression

    - [ ] Misc Pictures
    - [ ] Abusing Diagram Expression
    - [ ] Abstract Diagram Expression
    - [ ] Diagrams As An Aspect

- ### From Spec

    - [ ] Groups *Construct Drafts* topics that may be recognizable from the *spec*, but then maybe lesser worked out ideas about these topics.

- ### Implementations
    
    - [x] ~ Achievability
          - [ ] Overview Page
          - [x] Everything Only ( Lack Of Choice = Guarantees )
          - [x] Generic, No Generators
          - [x] Programming Language Programmed Within Itself
          - [x] Small Base if Code
          - [x] C++ / C\#
    - [ ] Several texts about attempts to create an application that would involved Encircle might be found here.
    - [ ] Code Editor
    - [ ] Some topics might be recognizable from the spec, but then moved here in case it went more into *implementation* than aimed for.
    - [ ] Optimization

- ### Input Output

    - Might introduce a way to handle input/output and concurrency.

- ### Text Code

    - [ ] Basically each element of the language specification might be given a textual representation as well.
    -----
    - [x] Text Code Index Page
    - [ ] Identifiers Articles
        - [ ] Identifiers
        - [ ] Omitted Identifier
        - [ ] Namespaces
        - [ ] Aliases
        - [ ] Naming
    - [ ] Literals
        - [ ] Object Literals
        - [ ] Command Literals
        - [ ] Concept Literals
        - [ ] Collection Operation Literals
    - [ ] Parameters in Text Code
          - [ ] Parameter Order in Text Code
          - [ ] Parameters for Objects in Text Code
          - [ ] Required & Optional in Text Code
          - [ ] Variable Amount of Parameters in Text Code
    - [ ] Access Operators
    - [x] Assignment in Text Code (part done)
    - [ ] Declaration on First Use
    - [ ] Half-Case-Sensitive Identifiers
    - [ ] Macro Keywords
    - [ ] Pointer Operators
    - [ ] Qualified Event Names

- ### Access Control

- ### Ancestry Terms

- ### Automatic Containment

    - [ ] Artificial Promotion, Esthetic Reference
    - [ ] Fixed Logical Residence

- ### The Aspect Construct

    - [ ] This phase finally introduces the aspect coding construct, which might replace code generation by an alternative solution. The aspects is pretty much equal to the aspect construct known from aspect oriented programming.
    -----
    - [ ] The Aspects Construct

- ### Concurrency

- ### Conversions 

- ### Encircle Language Spec Summary

- ### Errors & Warnings

    - [ ] Errors
    - [ ] Warnings
    - [ ] Structure Errors

- ### Locking

- ### Peels

- ### Special Access
 
    - [ ] Global Access
    - [ ] Clause Access
    - [ ] Interface Access

- ### Strings

- ### Summaries of the C and C++ Languages

- ### Transactions

- ### Libraries

    - [ ] Math / Operators

        - [ ] Math might be implemented as a library of operators, which may facility those normal expressions that might be familiar from other programming languages: arithmetic, comparison, boolean operations: expressions if you will. A programming language may be incomplete without them. However, in Encircle it might be just a module.

        - [ ] These expressions of combining operators might be expressed as a diagram displaying it as an object graph, but might also be converted to text displayed inside the diagram.

    - [ ] Querying & Collection Operations

        - [ ] This phase might be a belated introduction of a relational paradigm into the language.
        -----
        - [ ] Collection
            - [ ] Filters, Sorts, Searches, Joins & Indexes
            - [ ] Collection
            - [ ] SQL & Tables
            - [ ] Collection Operations

Broader View
------------

- ### Exchangeability (Part Done)

    - [x] Exchangeability Index Page
    - [ ] Diagram & Text Code Expression
    - [ ] Object Oriented = Relational
    - [x] Data = Code
    - [x] Programming Language = Database
    - [x] Design Time = Run Time
    - [x] User = Programmer
    - [x] Clear Cut Coding Principles
    - [ ] Attributes Are Objects
    - [ ] Command = Executable Object
    - [ ] Hand Signs
    - [ ] Hand Writing
    - [ ] Hardware & Software
    - [ ] Multi-Language
    - [ ] System Engineering = Software Engineering
    - [ ] Internet as a Single Computer  
        - [ ] A unified paradigm for all digital objects
        - [ ] A single bulk of storage
        - [ ] Execution of programs running across machine boundaries
        - [ ] Security
        - [ ] Control of concurrent use
        - [ ] Communication between computers
        - [ ] ID’s
        - [ ] Site merging
        - [ ] Parallel processing
        - [ ] Mirroring & synchronized copies
        - [ ] Implications for other concepts
        - [ ] Legacy modules
    - [x] Hyperlinks = Referential Structure
    - [ ] Flat & Structured Interchange
    - [x] User Interface Not Procedure Oriented
    - [x] Symbol = Creator

- ### Internet Aspects

    - In this phase the essential parts to make the internet function as a single computer are completed.
    -----
    - [ ] Internet Aspects
        - [ ] Mirroring
        - [ ] Copies
        - [ ] Internet Synchronization
        - [ ] Internet Threads
        - [ ] Publishing
        - [ ] Backup Machine
        - [ ] ... (more to come?)
    - [ ] Storage \ Caching
    - [ ] The Physical & The Logical
    - [ ] Access Control  
        - (That might also be relevant for turning the internet into a single computer.)

- ### Expression

    - [ ] Alternative Media
    - [ ] Expression Mixing
    - [ ] Specialized Expressions

- ### Extensibility (Part Done)

    - [ ] Extensibility Index Page
    - [ ] Aspects As External Modules
    - [x] Module Integration
    - [x] Reflection
    - [ ] Relational As Carbon Base

- ### From Spec

    - Groups *Broader View* topics that may be recognizable from the *spec*, but then ideas perhaps more philosophical and lesser to the point.

- ### Integration

    - [ ] To really prove the language’s power, you might want to be able to navigate existing systems with it. So you might want to be able to express file systems, other text codes, other module systems, relational database, web services and everything in the diagram language and navigate through the systems, navigating through a single diagram. It is not very easy to realize that. The problem is the multiplicity of it: you would have to write an integration module for each system you want to integrate with. But if you could just prove the concept with a couple of systems, or your favorite systems, it may inspire people to say: if you make these integration modules this would be a really really valuable thing.
    -----
    - [x] Integration Overview Page
    - [ ] Text Codes
        - [ ] Additional Text Codes
            - [ ] Math Code
            - [ ] Assembly Language
        - [ ] Integrating Text Codes
    - [ ] UML

- ### Semantic Modeling

    - [ ] May be about how Encircle language might be used to express or model meaning from reality, a possible link to artificial intelligence, natural language and (bulk) manipulation of semantic models.
    -----
    - [ ] Artificial Intelligence
    - [ ] Natural Language
    - [ ] Neural Networks
    - [ ] Object Algebra
    - [ ] Attributes as Tree Layers
    - [ ] Automatic Object Formation
    - [ ] Extensive Classification with Interfaces
    - [ ] Multiple Language Layers
    - [ ] Text Classing

- ### Binarals
    
    - (for the purpose of compiling)

- ### Debugging

- ### Macro Recorder

- ### Object Storage